{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf190
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red56\green110\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Dear Justin Murphy, \
\
We will need the following changes to be made in order to accept your submission: \
\

\b \ul 1. Follow this formatting exactly for title page: \
\pard\pardeftab720
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.temple.edu/dissertationhandbook/documents/Append_F1_DissTitlePage_SCRIPT.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ulc2 http://www.temple.edu/dissertationhandbook/documents/Append_F1_DissTitlePage_SCRIPT.pdf}} \
\
2. Dissertation must have an ABSTRACT, which will come after the title page. \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0 \cf0 \ulnone \

\b \ul 3. Front Matter (everything before CHAPTER 1) will be included in the TABLE OF CONTENTS, and headings will be in ALL CAPS: \
ABSTRACT \
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS \
TABLE OF CONTENTS (do not list TOC in FM list). \
LIST OF TABLES \
LIST OF FIGURES \
CHAPTERS \
BIBLIOGRAPHY \
APPENDICES 
\b0 \ulnone \
\

\b \ul 4. All CHAPTER headings and titles will be in ALL CAPS in both the TOC and the document, as will the above headings. 
\b0 \ulnone \
\
Except Bibliography needs to be all CAPS in document (preferably REFERENCES)\
\
5. Dissertation will be paginated in this way: \
Front Matter--roman numerals \
CHAPTER 1 starts on page 1 and doc continues arabic pagination until the end. \
\
6. REFERENCES heading must be listed in TOC. \
\
7. Table labels will be consistently placed above Tables and be left margin justified. \
\
8. Table on page 64 is missing a label and number. Revise Table numbers accordingly. \
\
9. Page 65 is blank. \
\
10. Graduate School Dissertation & Thesis Handbook places all APPENDICES at the end of the document and after BIB in TOC: \
APPENDIX A \
ITS TITLE \
\
APPENDIX B \
ITS TITLE \
etc, etc. \
\
For formatting guidelines please review the Dissertation & Thesis Handbook. \
Revisions due no later than Wednesday 5/14/14. \
}